When you review the project code, you will see the use of an entity manager.
So how does the entity manager fit in with the database transaction?
In an ideal scenario, we will fully gain the benefit of Spring Data JPA,
which we will do later,
and remove the DAO completely and leave only the DAO interface.
But I need to talk through the persistence context
versus a database transaction, and the code as is helps to solidify this concept.
There are two separate concepts to consider,
the database transaction and the persistence context.
Each has its own lifecycle and scope.
When the @Transactional annotation is used,
it is only defining the scope of a single database transaction.
Now the database transaction happens inside the scope of a persistence context.
The persistence context comes from JPA, as does the entity manager,
and is implemented internally using a Hibernate session when, of course, you are using Hibernate as your persistence provider.